# Upstream | Azure | Virtual Machine x RKE

This module is used to establish a Rancher (local) managment cluster using [Azure Virtual Machine](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/) and [RKE](https://rke.docs.rancher.com/).

## Usage

```bash
git clone https://github.com/rancherlabs/tf-rancher-up.git
cd recipes/upstream/azure/rke
```

- Copy `terraform.tfvars.example` to `terraform.tfvars`
- Edit `terraform.tfvars`
  - Update the required variables:
    -  `prefix` to give the resources an identifiable name (eg, your initials or first name)
    -  `subscription_id` to specify in which Azure subscription the resources will be created
    -  `region` to suit your region
    -  `instance_count` to specify the number of instances to create
    -  `instance_type` to specify the instance type used to create Azure Virtual machines (default "")
    -  `os_type` to specify the OS and the SSH user used to create the VMs (default "sles")
    -  `rancher_hostname` in order to reach the Rancher console via DNS name
    -  `rancher_password` to configure the initial Admin password (the password must be at least 12 characters)
- Make sure you are logged into your Azure Account from your local Terminal. See the preparatory steps [here](../../../../modules/infra/azure/README.md).
- SSH keys will be automatically created unless `create_ssh_key_pair` is set to `false`.
- Modify the `ssh_public_key_path` and `ssh_private_key_path` variable to content the path where SSH keys are stored in your local terminal if `create_ssh_key_pair` is set to `false`.
- If an HA cluster need to be deployed, change the `instance_count` variable to 3 or more.
- There are more optional variables which can be tweaked under `terraform.tfvars`.

**NOTE** you may need to use ` terraform init -upgrade` to upgrade provider versions

Execute the below commands to start deployment.

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

The login details will be displayed in the screen once the deployment is successful. It will have the details as below.

```bash
rancher_hostname = "https://rancher.<xx.xx.xx.xx>.sslip.io"
rancher_password = "initial-admin-password"
```

- Destroy the resources when cluster is no more needed.
```bash
terraform destroy
```

**IMPORTANT**: Please retire the services which are deployed using these terraform modules within 48 hours. Soon there will be automation to retire the service automatically after 48 hours but till that is in place it will be the users responsibility to not keep it running more than 48 hours.

### Advanced

Target a specific resource/module to action the changes only for that resource/module

For example, target only the `rke_cluster` resource to re-run the equivalent of `rke up`

```bash
terraform apply -target module.rke.rke_cluster.this -target module.rke.local_file.kube_config_yaml
```

This also updates the kube_config generated by RKE.

### Notes

A log file for the RKE provisioning is written to `rke.log`

See full argument list for each module in use:
  - [Azure](../../../../modules/infra/azure)
  - [RKE](../../../../modules/distribution/rke)
  - [Rancher](../../../../modules/rancher)

### Known Issues
- `terraform destroy` will timeout while removing the Rancher helm release from the cluster. You can run `terraform destroy` again after the timeout and the deprovisiong process will complete successfully.  
